---
title: Release YYYY-MM-DD
menuTitle: YYYY-MM-DD
any: true
description: >-
  Changelog for Release YYYY-MM-DD (RELEASED_VERSIONS) containing new features,
  bug fixes, and more.
draft: true
---

## Oso 0.24.0

### Core

#### Other bugs & improvements

- Oso now allows multiple resource blocks to be declared for the same resource type. The declarations from all resource blocks for a given type are merged together before policy evaluation. This permits rules in one block to reference declarations in another and for resource blocks to be composed over multiple files.
- Fixed a data race in our error handling functionality which resulted in truncated error messages.
- Fixed a regression in the logic for rule matching when using `in` with data filtering.
- Fixed a regression in rule type checking which prevented using roles with `actor` blocks.

### Rust

#### Other bugs & improvements

- Implemented `ExternalIsSubclass` query event. Prevents `x matches Foo and x matches Bar`
  from panicking. Instead, this will now correctly fail when `Foo != Bar`.
  Thanks to [`@davepacheco`](https://github.com/davepacheco) for the contribution!


## `RELEASED_PACKAGE_1` NEW_VERSION


### Go

#### Other bugs & improvements
- Added a `SetAcceptExpression` method to the `Query` struct which makes
  it possible to get partially-evaluated terms back from the core.
  This is a step towards data filtering in Go.
  Thanks to [`@joshrotenberg`](https://github.com/joshrotenberg) for the PR!

#### Platform Support

We now support building Oso on ARM-based MacOS systems using Go 1.16 or later.

### Ruby

#### New Features

##### New Data Filtering API

A new data filtering backend is now available in the Ruby library, which should provide
better performance in most cases. An example ActiveRecord adapter is also included. For
details on how to configure and use the new data filtering code, please see [our docs][new_data_filtering_docs].

[new_data_filtering_docs]: https://docs.osohq.com/ruby/guides/data_filtering_next.html


#### Breaking changes

None

#### New features

##### VSCode Extension

Summary of user-facing changes.

Link to [relevant documentation section]().

#### Other bugs & improvements

- Bulleted list
- Of smaller improvements
- Potentially with doc [links]().
