---
title: Release 2021-12-01
menuTitle: "2021-12-01"
any: true
description: >-
  Changelog for Release 2021-12-01 (oso 0.24.0, django-oso 0.24.0, flask-oso 0.24.0, sqlalchemy-oso 0.24.0, VS Code extension 0.24.0) containing new features,
  bug fixes, and more.
---

## VS Code Extension 0.24.0

- Our VS Code Extension now displays inline diagnostics (errors & warnings) in the editor as well as in VS Code's **Problems** pane.
  - The extension immediately highlights errors and warnings encountered while parsing and validating your policy, such as if a rule is missing a trailing semi-colon, a resource block declares `"owner"` as both a role and a relation, or your policy contains no `allow()` rule. You would normally see this feedback when running your application, but the extension surfaces it while you edit your policy.
  - The extension collects **non-identifiable** metrics that we use to improve Oso. We collect data into un-timestamped batches instead of sending it on every policy load since we care about aggregate statistics; not tracking your personal development behavior. **We will never sell this data**. For more info on exactly what is tracked and why, see [this page](reference/tooling/ide/metrics) in our docs.

## Oso 0.24.0

### Core

#### Other bugs & improvements

- Oso now allows multiple resource blocks to be declared for the same resource type. The declarations from all resource blocks for a given type are merged together before policy evaluation. This permits rules in one block to reference declarations in another and for resource blocks to be composed over multiple files.
- Fixed a data race in our error handling functionality which resulted in truncated error messages.
- Fixed a regression in the logic for rule matching when using `in` with data filtering.
- Fixed a regression in rule type checking which prevented using roles with `actor` blocks.

### Rust

#### Other bugs & improvements

- Implemented `ExternalIsSubclass` query event. Prevents `x matches Foo and x matches Bar`
  from panicking. Instead, this will now correctly fail when `Foo != Bar`.
  Thanks to [`@davepacheco`](https://github.com/davepacheco) for the contribution!


### Go

#### Other bugs & improvements
- Added a `SetAcceptExpression` method to the `Query` struct which makes
  it possible to get partially-evaluated terms back from the core.
  This is a step towards data filtering in Go.
  Thanks to [`@joshrotenberg`](https://github.com/joshrotenberg) for the PR!

#### Platform Support

We now support building Oso on ARM-based MacOS systems using Go 1.16 or later.

### Ruby

#### New Features

##### New Data Filtering API

A new data filtering backend is now available in the Ruby library, which should provide
better performance in most cases. An example ActiveRecord adapter is also included. For
details on how to configure and use the new data filtering code, please see [our docs]({{< ref
path="guides/data_filtering" lang="ruby" >}}).

## `django-oso` 0.24.0

Bumped the minimum required version of the `oso` dependency.

## `flask-oso` 0.24.0

Bumped the minimum required version of the `oso` dependency.

## `sqlalchemy-oso` 0.24.0

Bumped the minimum required version of the `oso` dependency.
