---
title: Release 2021-10-19
menuTitle: 2021-10-19
any: true
description: >-
  Changelog for Release 2021-10-19 (0.22.0) containing new features,
  bug fixes, and more.
draft: false
---


## `oso` 0.22.0

### Core

#### Breaking changes

{{% callout "Warning" "orange" %}}
  This release contains breaking changes. Be sure to follow migration steps
  before upgrading.
{{% /callout %}}

##### Undefined rule validation

Oso will now raise an error if your policy contains calls to rules which are not defined.

For example this policy which relies on an undefined `is_admin` rule

```polar
allow(actor, action, resource) if is_admin(actor)
```

will produce the following error:

```console
ValidationError: Call to undefined rule "is_admin" at line 1, column 37
```

To resolve these validation errors you can either update the policy to include a
definition for the missing rule or remove the offending call entirely.

#### New features

##### Improved policy validation

Oso now provides better errors and guidance in many common error cases:

- Oso will issue a warning if there is no `allow` rule in your policy (and
  also no `allow_request` or `allow_field` rules).
- Oso will propose a suggested fix if you forget to write an actor block when
  using resource blocks.
- Oso will issue a warning if there are resource blocks in your policy but
  no calls to `has_permission` in any rules.
- Oso will propose a suggested fix if you define a rule without sufficient
  parameter type specialization.
- Oso will produce a more helpful message if a required data filtering callback
  hasn't been provided.

##### New syntax

- Polar dictionary patterns and literals now support a shorthand syntax similar
  to JavaScript and Rust: `{ value: value }` can now be written more concisely
  as `{ value }`.

##### Build improvements

- Fixed the way we build our static library on Linux so it doesn't embed
  musl and instead links to the system c runtime library.
  Languages that depend on the static lib Linux build such as python and go
  should support more platforms now.

#### Bug fixes & other changes

- Fixed a bug which led to `var matches Type` failing when `var` was unbound.
- Fixed a bug that caused type constraint checking to incorrectly succeed,
  resulting in incorrect filters or infinite loops.
- Same-type relations defined in resource blocks will now work as expected.

### Python

#### Breaking changes

- The `types` field to `register_class` that takes the types of the fields is now called `fields`.


#### Other bugs & improvements

- The Python library for macOS now supports M1/ARM processors.

### Node.js

#### Other bugs & improvements

- Oso now defaults to using Lodash's `isEqual` function when comparing JavaScript values
  for equality.
- Fixed a bug preventing dictionaries created in Polar from making the round-trip
  to JS and back. Many thanks to [`@rradczewski`](https://github.com/rradczewski) for
  [raising](https://github.com/osohq/oso/issues/1242) and reproducing
  the issue, and confirming the fix!

### Rust

#### Other bugs & improvements

- Changed an internal debugging flag away from using `RUST_LOG` so that
  Rust users won't be flooded with messages that they probably don't want.

### Go

#### Other bugs & improvements

- Fixed a bug that prevented loading multiple files via the `LoadFiles` API.
