---
title: Release 2021-12-22
menuTitle: 2021-12-22
any: true
description: >-
  Changelog for Release 2021-12-22 (oso 0.25.0, django-oso 0.25.0, flask-oso
  0.25.0, sqlalchemy-oso 0.25.0) containing new features, bug fixes, and more.
draft: false
---

## `oso` 0.25.0

### Core

#### Breaking changes

{{% callout "Warning" "orange" %}}
  This release contains breaking changes. Be sure to follow migration steps
  before upgrading.
{{% /callout %}}

##### `POLAR_LOG` now supports multiple log levels

* Previously we supported `POLAR_LOG=trace` and `POLAR_LOG=on`, both of which enabled slightly different but verbose "TRACE"-level logging of the execution of queries and their constituent goals within the Polar VM.
* `POLAR_LOG=on` was slightly less verbose than `POLAR_LOG=trace` but still produced a voluminous output which made it hard to parse and follow the execution of a particular query.
* To enable easier query debugging we have broken out `POLAR_LOG` into new discrete `INFO` and `TRACE` levels. Specifying `POLAR_LOG=info` will cause Polar to emit a more concise log output intended to be consumed by developers as they build and debug their Polar policies. The more verbose TRACE output is still available through `POLAR_LOG=trace`. Check out our [documentation](/reference/tooling/tracing.html) for more information on tracing.

#### Other bugs & improvements

- Fixed a variable scope bug affecting the `forall` operator that caused affected
  queries to fail with an `UnhandledPartial` error.
- Subsequent unification of incompatibly type-constrained variables will now fail
  correctly.
- The operators `not`, `forall`, `or`, `<`, `<=`, `>`, and `>=` can now be used
  with data filtering.
- Fixed an issue with incompatible types being assigned to variables during rule
  matching.

### Node.js

#### Breaking changes

{{% callout "Warning" "orange" %}}
  This release contains breaking changes. Be sure to follow migration steps
  before upgrading.
{{% /callout %}}

##### Second parameter of Oso.query() API changed from bindings to options

Pre-seeding the Polar VM with bindings for a query is a bit of an advanced use
case, but if you were previously passing bindings to `Oso.query()`:

```js
const bindings = new Map([['x', 1]]);
oso.query('f(x)', bindings);
```

You'll need to update that call to pass `bindings` as a key in the new
`QueryOpts` object:

```js
const bindings = new Map([['x', 1]]);
oso.query('f(x)', { bindings });
```

#### Other bugs & improvements

- Thanks to [`@Kn99HN`](https://github.com/Kn99HN) for adding the
  `acceptExpression` query flag to the Node.js lib!

### Python

#### New Features

##### New Data Filtering API

The improved data filtering API released for Ruby in 0.24.0 is now available
in the Python library, with a built-in example adapter for the SQLAlchemy ORM.
See the [Python API docs]({{< ref path="reference/api" lang="python" >}}) for
more details.

## `sqlalchemy-oso` 0.25.0

### Other bugs & improvements

- `scoped_session` now correctly handles a `get_checked_permission` callback that
  returns `None`.
