---
title: Release 2021-02-17
menuTitle: 2021-02-17
any: true
description: Changelog for Release 2021-02-17 (oso 0.11.0) containing new features, bug fixes, and more.
---

## `oso` 0.11.0

### Improved data filtering capabilities

Data filtering (aka list filtering, partial evaluation, constraint propagation)
features that were previously "alpha" (0.11.0a0) have landed in this release.
This involved extensive internal changes to the Polar VM, but _every policy
and query that was previously valid should continue to work in this release_.
If you have a policy and query that previously worked but does not work
correctly with this release, _please let us know_ via Slack or opening
a GitHub issue.

Some policies and queries that previously raised errors (e.g., those involving
unbound variables) are now accepted, and yield constraints that must be satisfied
for the query to be successful. This *should* only affect data filtering users,
but again, if this causes problems for your use case, please reach out to us.

### `django-oso` 0.7.0, `flask-oso` 0.8.0, `sqlalchemy-oso` 0.5.0

Updated to use new data filtering capabilities that were previously
marked as "beta". Please see caveats above.

### `go-oso` 0.11.0

The Oso Go library now supports the REPL, the debugger and has expanded documentation.
To build and run the standalone Go REPL you can `go build cmd/oso/oso.go` and then run
it with `./oso my_policy.polar`. You can also use `oso.go` as an example of how to start
a Go REPL from your Oso instance.

This is also the Oso Go library's first "official" release!
