==============
List Filtering
==============

oso supports applying authorization logic at the ORM layer so that you can
efficiently authorize entire data sets. For example, suppose you have millions
of posts in a social media application created by thousands of users, and
regular users are only authorized to view posts from their friends. It would be
inefficient to fetch all of the posts and authorize them one by one. It would
be much more efficient to distill from the policy a *filter* that can be
applied by the ORM to return only the authorized posts. This idea can be used
in any scenario where you need to authorize a subset of a large collection of
data.

The oso policy engine can now produce such filters from your policy. Below
we'll briefly explain how it works and link to instructions and examples for
the supported ORMs (currently Django & SQLAlchemy).

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    django
    sqlalchemy

How it works
============

Imagine the following authorization rule. A user is allowed to view any public
social media posts as well as their own private posts:

.. code-block:: polar

  allow(user, "view", post) if
      post.access_level = "public" or
      post.creator = user;

For a particular user, we can ask two fundamental questions in the context of
the above rule:

1. Is that user allowed to view a specific post, say, ``Post{id: 1}``?
2. Which posts is that user allowed to view?

The answer to the first question is a boolean. The answer to the second is a
set of *constraints* that must hold in order for *any* ``Post`` to be
authorized.

oso can produce such constraints through *partial evaluation* of a policy.
Instead of querying with concrete object (e.g., ``Post{id: 1}``), you can pass
a ``Partial`` value, which signals to the engine that constraints should be
collected for it. A successful query for a ``Partial`` value returns constraint
expressions:

.. code-block:: polar

  _this.access_level = "public" or _this.creator.id = 1

Partial evaluation is a generic capability of the oso engine, but making use of
it requires an adapter that translates the emitted constraint expressions into
ORM filters. Our first two supported adapters are for the :doc:`Django
</using/frameworks/django>` and :doc:`SQLAlchemy
</using/frameworks/sqlalchemy>` ORMs, with more on the way.

These adapters allow oso to effectively translate policy logic into SQL `WHERE`
clauses:

.. code-block:: sql

  WHERE access_level = "public" AND creator.id = 1

In effect, authorization is being enforced by the policy engine and the ORM
cooperatively.

.. image:: /getting-started/list-filtering/list-filtering.svg

Alternative solutions
=====================

Partial evaluation is not the only way to efficiently apply authorization to
collections of data. On the :doc:`Access Patterns
</getting-started/application/patterns>` page, we describe :ref:`several
alternatives <authorizing-list-endpoints>`. Manually applying ``WHERE`` clauses
to reduce the search space (or using `ActiveRecord-style scopes
<https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_querying.html#scopes>`_) requires
additional application code and still needs to iterate over a potentially large
collection. Authorizing the filter to be applied (or having oso output the
filter) doesn't require iterating over individual records, but it does force
you to write policy over filters instead of over application types, which can
lead to more complex policies and is a bit of a leaky abstraction.

Frameworks
==========

To learn more about this feature and see usage examples, see our ORM specific documentation:
  - :doc:`Django </getting-started/list-filtering/django>`
  - :doc:`SQLAlchemy </getting-started/list-filtering/sqlalchemy>`
  - Odoo (coming soon)

More framework integrations are coming soon - join us on Slack_ to discuss your
use case or open an issue on GitHub_.

.. _Slack: http://join-slack.osohq.com/
.. _GitHub: https://github.com/osohq/oso
