=====
0.5.0
=====

**Release date:** 2020-08-25

Major news
==========

Node.js support
---------------

oso now supports applications written in Node.js, using our
:doc:`Node.js library </using/libraries/node/index>`. Download :doc:`here
</download>`.

Breaking changes
================

.. warning:: This release contains breaking changes. Be sure
   to follow migration steps before upgrading.

Method/Attribute syntax
-----------------------

Previously, ``x.foo`` and ``x.foo()`` in an oso policy could either be
performing an attribute lookup or invoking a zero-arity method on ``x``. If
looking up the ``foo`` property returned a method, the host language libraries
would transparently invoke it and return the result.

**As of this release, parentheses are required for invocation**. ``x.foo``
performs a lookup, and ``x.foo()`` invokes a zero-arity method.

New features
==============

Debug Mode
==========

oso can be run in debug mode by setting an environment variable ``POLAR_DEBUG=1``
This prints debug output when polar queries are evaluated to show what's happening.

Other bugs & improvements
=========================

- Improved performance of policies with many rules having ground (constant) parameters.
- Improved performance of ``in`` operator (list membership) with many ground elements.
- Stack traces return the original policy source instead of the internal version.
- New FFI methods for passing print and warning messages from the core runtime to the language libraries.

Community
=========

Many thanks to `Dan Callahan <https://github.com/callahad>`_ for the documentation suggestion!
