=====
0.5.2
=====

**Release date:** 2020-09-08

Breaking changes
================

None

New features
============

Support for constructors with both positional and keyword arguments (`#405 <https://github.com/osohq/oso/pull/405>`_)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- In languages that support both positional and keyword arguments (currently
  Python and Ruby), oso now supports registering classes with constructors that
  use both.
- The syntax for calling a constructor with mixed arguments from an oso policy is:

  .. code-block:: polar

    new MyClass(1, 2, foo: 3)

- As with Python and Ruby, positional arguments must come before keyword
  arguments.
- For more, see documentation for the :ref:`new operator <operator-new>`.

Django integration (``django-oso``) (`#395 <https://github.com/osohq/oso/pull/395>`_)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The new django-oso_ package makes it easy to use oso with Django.  It includes
middleware for using oso with Django, and authorization functions designed to
work with Django views.

.. _django-oso: https://pypi.org/project/django-oso/

Other bugs & improvements
=========================

- The Node.js library will now throw an ``InvalidConstructorError`` when
  attempting to register a non-constructable object via ``registerClass``.
  (`#392 <https://github.com/osohq/oso/pull/392>`_)
- Rule indexing performance improvements. (`#409
  <https://github.com/osohq/oso/pull/409>`_)
- Standardize handling of ±∞ and NaN across all language libraries. (`#410
  <https://github.com/osohq/oso/pull/410>`_)
- Better warnings for unknown specializers that are similar to built-in types.
  (`#403 <https://github.com/osohq/oso/pull/403>`_)
- Fix an issue with readline's calculation of the cursor position in the Python
  REPL on Linux. (`#397 <https://github.com/osohq/oso/pull/397>`_)
