=====
0.8.0
=====

**Release date:** 2020-11-10

Breaking changes
================

.. warning:: This release contains breaking changes. Be sure
   to follow migration steps before upgrading.

Explicit iterator syntax
------------------------

Calling methods and accessing attributes on application instances no longer
returns multiple values. Instead, to iterate over values of an application
instance the explicit ``in`` operator must be used.

**Old syntax**::

   amount = recipe.ingredients().quantity

**New syntax**::

  item in recipe.ingredients() and
  amount = item.quantity

With this change, any methods on the iterable instance itself can now be used::

  recipe.ingredients().total_cost()

The above would call the ``total_cost`` method on the iterable returned by
``recipe.ingredients()``.

New features
============

``nil``
-------

Polar now defines a :ref:`constant named nil <nil>`,
whose value is an application-language specific "null" value;
e.g., ``None`` in Python, ``nil`` in Ruby, ``null`` for Java & JS, etc.
Explicit comparisons with ``nil`` are particularly useful in the
context of application-language methods that may return ``None``, etc.

In the (still preview) context of list filtering via partial
evaluation, ``nil`` is intended to map to ``NULL`` in SQL. For instance,
partially evaluating the Polar expression ``x = nil`` with respect
to ``x`` yields a constraint that is translated into a check like
``X IS NULL``.

Other bugs & improvements
=========================

- List filtering now supports queries involving inversion (the ``not`` operator)
  properly.

- We now check fields in the case of a ``matches`` against a built-in type. E.g.:

  .. code-block:: polar

    2 matches Integer { numerator: 2, denominator: 1 }

- More invalid expressions are captured at parse time. For example, you cannot perform
  arithmetic over logical operations, ``(x = 1) + (x = 2)``, nor can you
  check an arithmetic expression for "truthiness", i.e. ``1 or 2``
  will also fail to parse::

    query> (x = 1) + (x = 2)
    ParserError
    Wrong value type: x = 1. Expected a value at line 1, column 1

    query> 1 or 2
    ParserError
    Wrong value type: 1. Expected a logical at line 1, column 1

- Matching an unbound variable against a pattern now results in an error. Previously
  this would bind the variable with the pattern, resulting in unexpected behavior.
  For example::

    query> x matches String
    PolarTypeError
    trace (most recent evaluation last):
      in query at line 1, column 1
        x matches String
    Type error: cannot bind pattern 'String' to 'x' at line 1, column 11

  Versus::

    query> "abc" matches String
    True
