=====
0.8.1
=====

**Release date:** 2020-11-24

Breaking changes
================

None

New features
============

List filtering
--------------

This release is a step towards stabilizing our list filtering functionality.
We've expanded the set of operators that you can use in a policy with list
filtering, added new adapter capabilities, and started `documenting the
list filtering use cases and adapters <TODO>`_. We're actively seeking
feedback on this feature, so please try it out and get in touch with any
suggestions, bug reports, etc.

Updated list filtering capabilities of the Django integration
-------------------------------------------------------------

More policies and Polar operations can now be used with list filtering:

* The ``in`` operator now supports relationship fields.
* Specializers & the ``matches`` operator support embedded fields,
  e.g., ``resource matches Post{id: 1}``.
* Nested field lookups are supported, e.g., ``resource.related_model.id = 1``.

Install the latest version from pip: ``pip install django-oso``.

Check out `the documentation <TODO>`_.

SQLAlchemy integration
----------------------

We've added our third framework integration (after Flask & Django):
SQLAlchemy! With this library, you can apply authorization filters
to arbitrary database queries. The initial release is roughly at
feature parity with the Django adapter's list filtering capabilities.

Try it out: ``pip install sqlalchemy-oso``.

Check out `the documentation <TODO>`_.

Other bugs & improvements
=========================

- Added `a new RBAC guide <https://docs.osohq.com/getting-started/rbac.html>`_.
- Updated a few runtime error messages.
- Added new :ref:`middleware <django-middleware>` for ``django_oso`` to control
  when/how policies are reloaded.