=====
0.9.0
=====

**Release date:** 2020-12-08

Breaking changes
================

.. warning:: This release contains breaking changes. Be sure
   to follow migration steps before upgrading.

Simplified ``sqlalchemy-oso`` session creation
----------------------------------------------

``sqlalchemy-oso`` now associates the current oso instance, user to authorize,
and action to authorize with
:py:class:`sqlalchemy_oso.session.AuthorizedSession`. This class manages
authorization instead of the removed
``sqlalchemy_oso.hooks.make_authorized_query_cls``.

- The ``sqlalchemy_oso.hooks`` module has been renamed to
  ``sqlalchemy_oso.session``. Update any imports to ``sqlalchemy_oso.session``.
- The ``sqlalchemy_oso.hooks.make_authorized_query_cls`` function has been
  removed. Use the session API instead.
  (:py:func:`sqlalchemy_oso.authorized_sessionmaker`).
- The ``sqlalchemy_oso.authorized_sessionmaker`` function no longer accepts
  extra positional arguments. Use keyword arguments to pass options to the
  session.

Removed "extras"
----------------

The oso library previously had some additional default supported classes:
``Http`` and ``Pathmapper``. These have been deprecated and removed.

To write policies over HTTP requests, either register the suitable
application class directly, or use a framework integration (e.g.
``flask-oso`` or ``django-oso``) which will do this for you
automatically.

New features
============

``PolarClass`` implemented for ``uuid`` crate
---------------------------------------------

``PolarClass`` is now implemented for `version 0.6 of the uuid crate
<https://docs.rs/uuid/0.6/uuid/>`_ behind the optional ``uuid-06`` feature
flag. Version 0.6 was chosen for compatibility with `Diesel
<https://crates.io/crates/diesel>`_.

Thanks to `John Halbert <https://github.com/johnhalbert>`_ for the
contribution!

Improved ``sqlalchemy-oso`` support for usage with ``flask_sqlalchemy``
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The ``sqlalchemy-oso`` library now has a built-in wrapper class that makes it
easier to use with the popular `Flask-SQLAlchemy
<https://pypi.org/project/Flask-SQLAlchemy/>`_ library. See
:py:class:`sqlalchemy_oso.flask.AuthorizedSQLAlchemy` for more information.

``scoped_session`` support for ``sqlalchemy-oso``
-------------------------------------------------

The new :py:func:`sqlalchemy_oso.session.scoped_session` session proxy can be
used instead of SQLAlchemy's built-in scoped_session_. This creates a session
scoped to the current oso instance, user and action.

.. _scoped_session: https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/13/orm/contextual.html#sqlalchemy.orm.scoping.scoped_session

Initial support for built-in roles in ``sqlalchemy-oso``
--------------------------------------------------------

This release includes the first steps towards out-of-the-box role-based access
control (RBAC) support in the ``sqlalchemy-oso`` integration. New to the
integration is an API for easily creating roles scoped to a resource and
assigning them to users of your application. You are then able to write RBAC
rules over those managed roles.

We will be iterating heavily on this feature over the coming weeks, but we
would love to hear any feedback from early testers.

Other bugs & improvements
=========================

- The Django ``AnonymousUser`` class is available in polar policies under the
  name ``auth::AnonymousUser``. This name is preferable to the previous fully
  qualified name because it matches the registered name of the ``User`` model
  (``auth::User``).
- The ``django-oso`` library no longer prints to stdout when loading policy
  files. Instead, the Python ``logging`` module is used.
- Relaxed the requirements for the Python ``oso`` and ``django-oso`` libraries.
  These now require ``cffi~=1.14`` and ``django>=2.2``, respectively.

  Thanks to `Mike D. <https://github.com/devmonkey22>`_ for suggesting /
  implementing the above three improvements!
- ``matches`` operations on fields of partials are now handled correctly in the
  SQLAlchemy list filtering adapter. Previously these operations would result
  in an error.
- The SQLAlchemy list filtering adapter now supports all comparisons. Previously
  comparisons other than ``==`` or ``=`` would cause an error.
- The Django list filtering adapter now fully supports use of the ``not``
  operator in policies.
- For the Django and SQLAlchemy list filtering adapters, a rule like ``allow(_,
  _, post: Post) if _tag in post.tags;`` now translates into a constraint that
  the post must have at least 1 tag.
- Fixed bug where checking if a character is in a string would fail incorrectly.
