.. title:: Changelog for Release 2020-11-25
.. meta::
  :description: Changelog for Release 2020-11-25 (oso 0.8.2, django-oso 0.4.1, flask-oso 0.5.1, sqlalchemy-oso 0.1.0) containing new features, bug fixes, and more.

##################
Release 2020-11-25
##################

=============
``oso`` 0.8.2
=============

New features
============

List filtering
--------------

This release is a step towards stabilizing our list filtering functionality.
We've expanded the set of operators that you can use in a policy with list
filtering, added new adapter capabilities, and started :doc:`documenting the
list filtering use cases and adapters </getting-started/list-filtering/index>`.
We're actively seeking feedback on this feature, so please try it out and get
in touch with any suggestions, bug reports, etc.

Other bugs & improvements
=========================

- Updated a few runtime error messages.

====================
``django-oso`` 0.4.1
====================

New features
============

Updated list filtering capabilities
-----------------------------------

More policies and Polar operations can now be used with list filtering:

* The ``in`` operator now supports relationship fields.
* Specializers & the ``matches`` operator support embedded fields,
  e.g., ``resource matches Post{id: 1}``.
* Nested field lookups are supported, e.g., ``resource.related_model.id = 1``.

Install the latest version from pip: ``pip install django-oso``.

Check out :doc:`the Django adapter documentation
</getting-started/list-filtering/django>`.

Other bugs & improvements
=========================

- Added new ``ReloadPolicyMiddleware`` :ref:`middleware <django-middleware>`
  for ``django_oso`` to control when/how policies are reloaded.

===================
``flask-oso`` 0.5.1
===================

Bumped the minimum required version of the ``oso`` dependency.

========================
``sqlalchemy-oso`` 0.1.0
========================

We've added our third framework integration (after Flask & Django):
SQLAlchemy! With this library, you can apply authorization filters
to arbitrary database queries. The initial release is roughly at
feature parity with the Django adapter's list filtering capabilities.

Try it out: ``pip install sqlalchemy-oso``.

Check out :doc:`the SQLAlchemy adapter documentation
</getting-started/list-filtering/sqlalchemy>`.
