.. title:: Changelog for Release 2021-01-20
.. meta::
  :description: Changelog for Release 2021-01-20 (oso 0.10.0) containing new features, bug fixes, and more.

##################
Release 2021-01-20
##################

==============
``oso`` 0.10.0
==============

Breaking changes
================

Anonymous rest variables now properly anonymized
------------------------------------------------

Previously, we were not generating unique identifiers for anonymous rest
variables (``*_``) during the rewriting pass. This resulted in unexpected
results for queries containing multiple anonymous rest variables, such as:

.. code-block:: polar

  [*_] in [*a] and [*b] in [*_] and b = 1

The above query would return a result with ``a`` bound to ``[1]`` because
``*a`` and ``*b`` interacted through the pair of un-anonymized rest variables.
After this change, that query now correctly returns a result with ``a`` bound
to ``[*_1]``, where ``*_1`` is the rewritten, anonymized rest variable.

New features
============

``get_allowed_actions`` introduced for Python
---------------------------------------------

Use `Oso.get_allowed_actions` to get a list of actions that a user
is allowed to take on a resource. These actions can be used for making
additional authorization decisions, especially in the frontend (e.g., hiding
or showing a button based on the current user's allowed actions).

See our guide :doc:`here </getting-started/ui/index>`!

Running oso in the browser
--------------------------

The oso JavaScript/TypeScript package on NPM has been updated to work with
browser environments using bundlers like webpack.

You can see it in action on our `new docs site <https://docs.osohq.com/v2/index.html>`_
and to see how to use in the browser, see `this example <https://github.com/osohq/oso-browser-quickstart>`_.


``PolarClass`` implemented for versions 0.7 & 0.8 of the ``uuid`` crate
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

``PolarClass`` is now implemented for versions 0.7 & 0.8 of the ``uuid`` crate
behind the optional ``uuid-07`` feature flag.

Ruby library now supports Ruby 3.0
----------------------------------

There are no breaking changes. Happy Rubying!


================
``oso`` 0.11.0a0
================

New features
============

Improved support for constraint propagation and interactions between variables in Polar VM
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Polar VM now supports adding constraints during query execution on any
unbound variable, including constraints over multiple unbound variables.
Constraints can be used within any query, without requiring partial objects to
be passed in to `oso.query_rule`.  This allows writing queries in a more
declarative style, and allows Polar to correctly answer more queries with
unbound variables.  The change improves support for the following
queries, when run using `oso.query_rule` or using list filtering adapters with
Django or SQLAlchemy:

- Rules involving intersections between multiple collections on objects

  .. code-block:: polar

      allow(actor, action, post: Post) if
          tag in post.tags and
          tag in actor.allowed_tags;

- Calling rules on a field of a constrained variable

  .. code-block:: polar

      allow(actor, action, post: Post) if allow(actor, action, post.tag);

- Comparison operations between constrained partials

  .. code-block:: polar

      allow(actor, action, post: Post) if
          post_tag in post.tags and
          actor_tag in actor.tags and
          post_tag = actor_tag;

- Support for more queries involving negation and constraints.
- Creation of constrained variables from unbound variables during query execution

  .. code-block:: polar

      f(x) if not (x = 1) and x = 2;

Since this is a substantial change, we are releasing an alpha build. This build
provides an opportunity to give feedback to our engineering team as we complete
this functionality. We're available in Slack for questions and feedback.

==========================
``sqlalchemy-oso`` 0.5.0a0
==========================

Includes support for ``oso`` 0.11.0a0.

======================
``django-oso`` 0.7.0a0
======================

Includes support for ``oso`` 0.11.0a0.
